
merigozu ganesh	 						Email:merigozuganesh@gmail.com 
Contact No: +91 9502364950
REPORT DEVELOPER   						                                                                                                                                                           



CARRIER OBJECTIVE

To find the challenging position that builds my technical skills and knowledge, as well as professional experience towards the growth of organization.

PROFESSIONAL EXPEREINCE

Having around total 3.5 years of experience in IT where 2+ years of experience as Power BI Developer and 1+ years of experience as SQL Server Developer. 

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

AS A REPORT DEVELOPER:

As part of reporting working on different types of documents [BSD, FSD, TDD, Unit Test etc.]
In my carrier I used tools like Power BI (Service and Server), Excel, SQL Server, Tabular Cubes, and Paginated Report Builder.
Conducted meetings with business clients for requirement gatherings and presented various solutions using best practices.
Experience in Power BI Desktop to connect with various data sources to importing data and transforming data for Business intelligence.
Created Report Testing document as part of detailed testing of report before delivery.
Experience in working with DAX queries in Power BI Desktop and DAX studio.
Created DAX Measures, Calculated Columns to implement date, time, text, statistical, logical, and mathematical operations to show on the visuals.
Knowledge on Agile Scrum and Kimball approach in the Projects.
Experience in creating data visualizations for KPI (KPI, Gauge, Bullet Chart) analysis and Detailed Analysis (various charts, maps, tables and matrix visuals).
Created reports with Parameters, Bookmarks, Slicers, Filters, Drill down/up options.
Used various SQL concepts (DDL, DML, Joins, Sub Queries, Set Operators, Views, Procedures. Functions) for Data Retrieval and Data Validation while working with SQL Server.
Knowledge in Gateway for Refresh and Scheduled Refresh by using Power BI Service.
Worked on creating new workspaces to import reports in Power BI Cloud.
Handled and maintained versioning for documents using GitHub.
Basic knowledge on Power Automate and Power Apps.

AS A SQL DEVELOPER:

Worked on creating databases, tables and managing their relationships.
Managing the database objects like Tables, Views, Functions, and Procedures in SQL Server.
Writing queries using Joins, Sub Queries, Set theory for data validation.
Knowledge on Indexes, Variables, and other intermediate objects.


EDUCATIONAL DETAILS

B-Tech IT from BITS College at Warangal affiliated to JNTU Hyderabad in 2014.

TECHNICAL SKILLS

Database			: Microsoft SQL Server 
BI Tools			: Power BI Desktop, Power BI Report Builder and SSRS 
Operating Systems		: Windows
Languages			:  SQL, DAX, Mash up(Basics)

WORK EXPERIENCE

Working as Report Developer for Advaiya Solutions from XXX 2022 to till date.

PROJECTS [CURRENT –TO - PAST]

Project Name				:  ICDWI (Integrated Customer Data Warehouse Insights)
Application Name    			:  BankBatchDetails Insights
Client					:  E-Trade Financial, New York, NY 
Project Role				:  Team Member  
Environment        			:  Windows, Power BI, Report Server, Report Builder, 
   SQL Server, Files (Excel)
  Team Size				:  6
  Duration                  			:  Sep 2020 to Nov 2021
Project Description:
Bank E-Trade has a small benefits process that sells several niche products to other small business owners. They offer these products directly to the employees of the small businesses, but the employers are billed, rather than the employees. These payments are then submitted back to Company E-Trade in a lump sum, but because of timing issues and ever-changing worker populations, the payment doesn’t always match the billed amount. Customers have the option to pay invoices using one of the  payment methods a) PayPal or an e-mail payment service b)By Check c) BY Wire. Working with the low-quality payment data and inaccurate reporting involves a significant amount of manual labor to match payments to customers and invoices. Because Company E-Trade is growing, the volume of payments is exceeding its capacity to continue to process payments manually. If the invoice number were always received with the payment, an automated process could easily identify the customer from the invoice and make some decisions about the payment by comparing the paid and billed amounts. Transforming the process of business data, Power BI, Report Server, and Report Builder used for accurate reporting insights and management.

Responsibilities:

Understanding Business Information documents regarding Customer payments and Invoices.
Working on High Level Design and Data Flow Designs to create package and Reports.
Using various transforms such as Lookup, Derived, Sort, Conditional Split, Character Map, Import column etc.
Execute SQL is used to work with procedure and return values. 
Worked on various types of data loading and refresh (Direct Query, Incremental Refresh).
Used parameters inside package for dynamically changing requirements.
Provided better user interaction using Filters, Slicers, Sync Slicers, What-if parameters, and Automatic Cross filtering and reporting.
Created parameters for data source connections and other user interactions.
Deployed reports and managed reports under report server [On-Premise].
Created paginated (Power BI Report Builder) and non-paginated [Power BI Desktop] reports based on the requirements.
Used Direct Query Approach and Incremental Refresh for SQL Server tables.
On-demand and Scheduled refresh data sources at Report Server.
Added users for RLS reports and Role based reports. 
Project: #2
 Project Name			:   MEDW (Merchandise Enterprise Data Warehouse)
 Application Name   		:   MaxMin Datamart
Client					:   AMSI Miniature Landscaping, CA
Project Role				:   Team Member, Power BI
Software Tools         			:   Power BI, SQL Server
Team Size				:   9
 Duration                  			:   Dec 2021 to Till date…this is for current project
Project Description:
A.M.S.I Manufactures products to create outdoor landscape scenes for dollhouses, railroad displays, dioramas, world iconic and model crafting. This business driven through three channels (Online, Retailer and Direct Outlet). Company strategic analysis expecting a better decision making system across all these channels for effective growth and made a MEDW. Power BI and SQL Server used to populate data into dimension and fact tables in Max Min Datamart which is in snow flake schema and Power BI Used for Insights Generation.

Responsibilities:

As an associate I involved in getting docs (which are kept in Sharepoint Server), understanding, analysing documents, creating and manipulating various packages and reports.
In case of changes to the reports we follow CR Document Procedure of the client.
I Prepared documents for (Functional, Technical Design, Unit test) required for the project.
Created Reports using various reporting concepts such as bookmarks, slicers, buttons, drill-down/up, drill through, themes, single value visuals and multi value visuals and graphical.
Business logics implemented using DAX Measures and DAX Calculations used Power BI Expression area and DAX studio for the validations.
Worked on the workspace in contributor role and creates appspace to share the content for collaboration and browsing.
Used gateways for On-Demand and Scheduled Refresh.
Identified long running data flows and eliminated bottlenecks. 
Written various SQL Queries (Duplications, Tops, Aggregate Operations etc...) as part of reconciliation and business logics validation.
Answering ADHOC requests from the Business users.
Load monitoring the Support Process by failure reporting and failure handling.  
Migrated artifacts from one environment to another (from Dev to Site etc…). Using Deployment Pipelines.

Project:# 3
Project name   		                     :   Hospital Management Control System
Role			                     :   SQL Developer
Team Size		                     :   4		
Environment			     :   Microsoft SQL Server, SSMS, Files
Duration				     :   June 2019 to Sep 2020

Project Description:

	This main objective of the Hospital Management Control System is to maintain patient details and appointment section in the hospital. This system has been developed to whole management system including Employees, Doctors, Patients, and Appointments etc. Admin having the rights to create Doctor, Employees, Equipment Details, Appointments, So Admin can edit and update details. 

Responsibilities:

Understanding the business requirements and creating the tables with relationships.
Wrote SQL Queries and Stored Procedures (T-SQL) using DDL, DML commands. 
Worked on creating views as per the requirements.
Used Joins and Sub-Queries to pull data from multiple tables.
Modified the Procedures, Joins and Views as per business changes.
Wrote calculation functions as per business requirements.
Creating indexes on tables for better performance.


DECLARATION

I hereby declare that the above particulars of facts and information stated are true, correct and complete to the best of my belief and knowledge.

Date:
Place: Hyderabad									         MAMIDI ADITHYA


